Good morning.
This is session 363.
You might be in the wrong place.
Take a quick check.
It's still okay to get up and leave.
I won't be hurt.
My name is Chris Parker.
I work on the Cocoa frameworks team.
And today I'm going to talk
to you about what we've been
doing in Cocoa for Snow Leopard.
And that usually works out
to be a whole bunch of API.
I don't have Steve's cool
thunk sound effect here.
I couldn't get that
in time for this talk.
So just imagine that happening there.
We've been spending a lot of time in the
Cocoa frameworks group working on a lot
of the things that you heard Bertrand
talk about in his talk on Monday.
And that's going to include some things
like better coverage in the kit and
foundation on technologies that you would
have had to go to other frameworks for.
And all the slides that
we talk about that,
and we'll have this nifty little
Cocoa icon in the upper corner there.
We also are looking at incorporating
concurrency directly into the
APIs in the Kit and in Foundation.
And these will all take advantage of,
you know,
these multiprocessor machines that we've
got with eight cores and the laptops
with dual cores and stuff like that.
We're also incorporating Sudden
Termination directly into
Foundation in the App Kit.
So this is a technology that's
going to allow users to speed up
their log-out and shutdown process,
as well as quit apps very quickly.
We're also spending a bunch of time
looking at file system efficiency.
There are a lot of different
places you can go to get
metadata about files in OS X,
and we're looking at consolidating all
of those into one API and also make
sure that we're taking advantage of
any work that anybody else has done in
the course of doing file system work.
So we're going to do some
caching there as well.
And we're, of course,
also going to talk about this guy here.
If you were here for the previous talk,
Blaine's What's New in Objective-C talk,
this is the new syntax for
declaring and using blocks in API.
This is not the scale.
It doesn't actually show up
this large in your source code.
Let's get started with foundation.
We're going to start off with blocks.
Blocks are small snippets of code
that capture the lexical scope.
If you were here for Blaine's talk,
you talked about being able to
use local variables directly in
the block that is in that scope.
I'll show you some examples of that.
They're inline,
so you'll write them right in your code.
They're also copyable.
Here's a new method.
It's on NSDictionary.
It's called Enumerate
Keys and Objects Using Block.
This is the method definition.
There's the selector,
and there's the entire declaration of
the single parameter that this takes.
It's a block.
Here's how you know it's a block.
This is just the little up caret.
You may have seen it in other great
operators like Bitwise Exclusive or.
Its name is block.
It returns nothing.
This is a void return.
Block.
And each time this block is invoked,
there will be three parameters
that are passed to this block.
One will be the key.
The other will be the value for that key,
the object for that key,
and this by reference
Boolean called stop.
And this is how you'll be able to
stop the enumeration midstream.
So rather than have something where
you had to write boilerplate to return
a value to tell us when not to stop,
you'll just set what
stop points to to yes,
and that will end that enumeration.
So this is a pattern that you'll see
throughout all of the enumerations.
enumeration code and iteration code
and searching code that we have
that are using blocks in foundation.
So remember how we used to do
enumeration of dictionaries,
right?
We have 4n in Leopard.
It's the fast enumeration protocol.
It allows you to iterate
through the dictionary,
and you'd have to write a 4n
loop against your dictionary,
and 4n only returns the keys.
So you'd have to go through
and call object for key
for each item and use that.
So in a block,
you would just use enumerate
keys and objects using block,
and there's the entire block,
and this means that you get the
key and object at the same time.
So this is a little bit more expressive.
It's a little nicer to use than
having to make that additional
message send each time.
We've also added some conveniences
to other classes that take blocks.
This one's on NSString.
And this is a very common
thing that people want to do.
They want to enumerate the lines
that are in a particular string.
So you'd call components
separated by string.
You might pass it the backslash
and the carriage return there,
or the new line.
And this winds up creating a whole
new array that's populated by
copies of those sub-strings in the
array that have separated by line.
And then you have to iterate over that.
What we do now is use
enumerate lines using block.
And each time through that block,
you'll just get a new NSString that
has just that line in it.
This avoids the intermediate array.
It's better for performance.
And the kit's actually going to go ahead
and do a much better job of figuring
out what all the line endings are,
right?
Because there are a lot of
different ways to break it up.
This takes care of all of those.
: This is the first time
I've seen these slides.
I'm really sorry.
One of the other things that you
do is with NS attributed strings,
right?
A lot of people want to be able to
go through the attributed string
and figure out what attribute
is in each range of the string.
And so you might call something
like attribute at index with
longest effective range in range.
So you have to set up this method
call and write a while loop that
iterates through these things.
Right?
What we're going to do instead
now is use enumerate attribute
in range options using block.
And the block is right here.
So what I've done here
is renamed the key,
the ID object to font so that it's a
little more obvious what I'm doing.
And this code just goes through,
runs through all the attributes in
the string and compares it to find
out if the font size is less than 10.
And if it is,
we'll just go ahead and print it out.
We can do other things with it as well.
This is a much easier way to be
able to enumerate in NS attribute.
So we're going to go ahead and print
out the attribute in the string.
And in order to also provide
a wider range of API,
we have two new methods that do this.
One is the one that I just showed you,
which is enumerate attributes
in range options using block.
That's the one on the bottom.
And enumerate attributes in
range options using block.
Each time through that block,
you're going to get an NSDictionary that
has the entire set of attributes
that are applied to that string,
to that substring in that range.
It's a much faster way to be able to
go through an entire string and get
all of the attributes that are there.
Blocks are letting us be a little
more expressive and allow you guys to
write less code in your applications.
So it's nice for us.
It's nice for you.
We're also adding API to
allow sorting using blocks.
This is the type definition of
basically a named block here.
The name is NS comparator.
Each time the comparator
block is invoked,
it'll take two objects to compare.
And you'll return an
NS comparison result from that.
And there are sort options that you
can pass to all of these things.
The sort concurrent flag
and the sort stable flag.
So now with the block API,
we have a stable sorting
API in foundation,
which is not a guarantee
that we made before.
So if you pass the sort stable flag,
you'll get a sort that the
results have the elements in their
relative positions correctly.
Those are NS sort options.
Also, that concurrent flag is interesting
because in Bertrand's example,
he had some dispatch call
going on and things like that.
And this basically reduces most of
the concurrent API in foundation.
So you can take the API in
foundation for all of these
kinds of sorts and selections to
a bit flag that you pass into it.
So we'll take care of all the
concurrency in the background.
You'll use these things with sorted array
using -- with options using comparator.
And this -- for an array
that's large enough,
we actually go through,
split it up into a bunch
of different threads,
let those threads do all the work.
We're also doing searching in
Foundation now using blocks.
Index of objects passing test and indexes
of objects with options passing test.
And you can pass a number of
different options to this.
Enumeration concurrent
and enumeration reverse.
If you want to do the enumeration
backwards for the options,
you can do that for indexes.
This also applies to all of the enumerate
objects using block APIs that are
against NSArray and things like that.
The interesting thing about
these blocks is that these are
the ones that return a bool.
And here, if the object or the
index is being passed in,
you'll do your test.
And then you'll return a yes
in order to get that object's
index included in the NSIndexSet.
This is a quick way to
build up those index sets.
You can write your test in line
there and it's very expressive.
: NSIndexSet now also does enumeration.
If you try to do 4N
enumeration with an NSIndexSet,
you can't.
Enumerating an NSIndexSet is
a little bit inconvenient.
These are enumerate indexes
using block and enumerate
indexes with options using block,
and these are a much easier
way to actually run over
each index in the NSIndexSet.
You'll get the index of each
object going through it.
Okay.
I can slow down for a second.
Sudden termination.
What we're trying to do here is
enable fast exit for applications
and log out and shut down.
We've all seen this where the user goes
up to the Apple menu and they pull down
shut down and you kind of sit there and
twiddle your thumbs while an application
does a bunch of work in order to quit.
[Transcript missing]
The way you do this is by
using NSProcessInfo API.
An application launches,
sudden termination is disabled.
When the app knows that
it's in a clean state,
you'll call enable sudden termination.
And this is how you signal
to the operating system that
you're ready to be killed.
If you have data that's being saved
and it hasn't made it out to disk yet,
you should disable sudden termination.
Wait until that work happens.
When you know the work has happened,
re-enable sudden termination.
We take care of a bunch of this for you.
So if you're using set object for key
and you just sort of take your hands
off and you wait for the auto sync
timer to come around and synchronize
your NS user defaults out to disk,
we'll disable sudden termination
while those haven't been written.
And we'll re-enable it
when it does get set.
So we're doing a bunch of the work.
NSDocument does a bunch
of work for you as well.
So there may only be a few places in
your code that you'll need to adopt this.
If you want to opt your app into it
by default so that when it launches,
it's clean right from the start,
you'll use this
NSSupportSuddenTermination
key in your Info.plist,
set the value to yes,
will talk about this in session 425,
Performance in Document-Centric
Cocoa Applications.
That's right here tomorrow at 5.
Makes for a long day,
but you should come see it.
It'll be a good talk.
We also have now automatic cache
management in Foundation via
the NS Cache class.
And this is something that
works a lot like a dictionary.
Objects that are put into the
cache are indexed by keys.
You'll do some search
object for key request.
That'll give the object back.
There's some built-in policy,
least recently used in frequency.
There's also a cost factor
that we're building into this
as well as account limit.
And these are sort of not hard limits.
We'll get close to them and then we'll
start taking some additional behavior.
Object for key and set object for key,
obviously the main setters and getters
for objects that you're going to put
into the cache and remove from the cache.
Remove object for key takes them out.
Set object for key cost is
how you associate a cost
with a particular object.
And that works in conjunction
with the set total cost limit API.
So you can set an upper
bound for the cost.
And as soon as we hit
that bound or go over it,
again, it's not a hard limit.
We'll start evicting items from
the cache based on their cost.
And the set count limit
is the same thing.
you probably want to know
when something's going to
get evicted from the cache.
[Transcript missing]
There's also now at the low level
a purgeable memory facility.
The kernel has a way to be able
to allocate a special kind of
memory that if it's not in use,
if you haven't indicated it's in use,
then, well, it'll go ahead and rip it out
from under you when there's
memory pressure on the system.
We've implemented that as part
of an NSMutableData subclass.
It's a special kind of mutable
data called purgeable data,
and this takes care of
managing this for you.
So we'll do the allocations
and things like that.
And what we've done in order to
make this discardable content
idea abstract is we have now an
NSDiscardableContent protocol,
and these methods are
for content management.
It's how you'll indicate that
you're still interested in the
backing store of an object,
and when you remove that interest,
the backing store of
the object may go away.
We also have an automatic
management method.
One of the other things that we
noticed in working on Snow Leopard
and other operating system releases
is that there are places where we
could be a lot more efficient in
terms of our use of the file system.
[Transcript missing]
: Thank you, Chris.
I'm going to start with a quick excerpt
of all the properties that are available,
and there are more of them
that you can see in this URL.h.
The effective icon key is the one
that's displayed for the user,
and the custom icon key is whether
or not the user has pasted a
new icon onto that resource.
So it will be able to tell the
difference between what's being
displayed and whether the user
has a preference for that icon.
We also have a new file URL type.
File URLs are interesting
because they're path-based,
right?
So volumes/users/chris_talk.rtf points
to a specific file in my home directory,
in that user's directory,
and if I move that file,
I'm not going to be able to locate it
with this resource locator anymore.
We're introducing a new type of
file URL called a file resource URL.
And when I call file resource URL,
I get something that looks like this.
The format of this isn't important.
What really is important is the behavior.
And if you've done
Carbon File Manager programming,
this basically functions
exactly like an FSREF.
So if the file moves on to
the local disk someplace,
we're going to track that.
So here's a file in my home directory.
I have this path-based URL.
I call file resource URL on it.
I get this nice different kind of URL.
It's still a file URL.
I can still pass this URL to things
like NSData's init with contents of URL,
any of the URL-taking methods that
are in Foundation and the kit.
But if I move that,
one of these actually tracks
the file when it moves.
So now you'll be able to get this
functionality right from NSURL and
use it all the way up through
the Foundation and AppKit stack.
is the talk about this today
at 2:00 in North Beach,
using file system APIs efficiently.
Chris Lynn will talk about this.
Keith will also explain about bookmarks,
which are a new kind of data that
we're using as basically the follow
on to the alias manager for very
rich aliasing experience also.
So that's also being
introduced today at 2:00.
As part of all this,
we've been introducing new
APIs in-- we introduced new
APIs in Leopard that took URLs.
We're actually doing a
lot more of this now.
We're adding more URL-based
API to Foundation.
So NSBundle grows a bunch
of new NSURL methods that
return these populated NSURLs.
URL for resource with extension,
subdirectory, isBundleWithURL,
all the different URL subfolders,
things like that.
And these are all things that you'll
be able to use directly in the new
Foundation APIs and the new Kit.
So NSURL, also we've put a number
of these on NSFileManager.
So all the copy item at path,
all the at path APIs are now at URL APIs.
So copy item at URL to URL error,
move item, link item, and remove item,
all of their delegate methods
have been updated as well to
hand you URLs to the delegate.
And these will all be ways that
we'll be able to take advantage
of some of the data sharing
that we can do with the NSURLs.
We've also enhanced
property list parsing,
some of the APIs there.
So if you're working with an NSData,
these two new methods on the
property list serialization headers,
data with property list format
options error and property list
with data options format error,
those two methods allow you to
switch back and forth between
NSDatas and property list classes.
And the important thing here is
the error parameter because we're
going to put better errors in
there to talk about what went wrong
in parsing that plist and where.
So whether something's not a plist
type or if you have an XML plist,
something's wrong with the XML,
that kind of thing.
And those are also suitable
for presentation to the user.
If you know something more about it,
though, as usual,
you should wrap those up and
put a more descriptive error
in yourself if you need to.
We've also done it for streams.
So if you have a stream that the mark is
sitting at the beginning of a property
list data that you know in the protocol
you're working with via the stream,
you'll be able to write the property list
to the stream or read the property list
from the stream using these two new APIs.
Write property list to stream format
options error and property list
with stream options format error.
So those are a set of property list
APIs that give you much better errors.
So-- oh, yeah,
there's that App Kit thing.
The Kit is getting a number of new
methods and functionality that also
incorporates some API that you would
have had to go to other frameworks for.
And we tried to be very careful
about the API that we're drawing in.
The first is being able to get at the
finder labels right from NS Workspace.
So you've seen this in the finder.
The user has a bunch of labels that
are set up with colors and text.
You'll call file labels or
file label colors against the
shared workspace instance.
And you'll get that list.
And if you register with NS Workspace's
shared workspace instance,
you can also get this notification about
the fact that the file labels change.
So if the user goes and tweaks those,
you'll get the notification
that says maybe you should go
back and read that list again.
Workspace also can show query results.
So something you would have had to
go to HLTB for the Carbon UI Kit for.
Show search results for query string.
You give it a query string that's
formatted the way Spotlight expects it,
and this will tell the finder to
go ahead and put that search window
up and start doing that search.
This is a nice little
convenience method there.
There are also new
notifications for NS Workspace.
And these will be available at all times.
At one time, you would have had to be
the frontmost app for this.
Now you can get them all the time.
Did hide app, did unhide app,
the activation and
deactivation notifications.
These work now for all
running applications.
This includes anything with a full
UI or LSUI element applications and
LS background only applications.
: I'm glad to see there are
four of you who need that.
There's now also desktop image support.
So now right from NS Workspace
you'll be able to set the desktop
image URL for a given screen.
Set desktop image URL for
screen options error.
Give us a URL that points in an image.
Which screen you want it on is
the NS screen instance there.
The options are things like, well,
it's what you see in the desktop
and screen saver control panel.
When you set a desktop image
you can choose whether it
fills the screen or centers,
things like that.
You can also find out what the URL is,
desktop image URL for screen and
desktop image options for screen.
So you'll know exactly how
the user has their desktop set
up if you want to change it.
We also now can vend information
about other running applications.
NS Workspace has this new method
called running applications,
and this includes all
running applications again.
So this is anything that checks in
with the Windows Server and says,
hey, I'm an app.
So this will be
LSUI element applications,
LS background only applications.
This is any Ruby Cocoa application
that checks in,
PyObjc, all of those things that actually
make a point of working with the
Windows Server to tell us that
it's an app will report here.
That running applications
method returns an NSArray.
Each element in that NSArray is an
instance of one of these things,
which is an NS running application.
And this is all stuff you probably
would have had to go to another API for.
The property declarations here
are things like terminated.
So if you have an instance
of one and it ends,
the terminated state will change to yes.
You may not be able to get
information about it after that,
but all of these things are available
while the app is still running.
Hidden, whether or not the app
is hidden or active,
the localized name of the app,
launch date, the icon,
what executable architecture is it,
and this includes whether
it's a 64-bit app,
32-bit app, translated app,
things like that.
If you wanted to tell one
of those applications to do
something like hide or unhide,
previously you would have had to
roll up an Apple event and send
that Apple event to the application
and get it to do something.
Now you can call hide or unhide
directly on one of these instances,
and that will just take
care of it for you.
You can tell it to terminate
if you're feeling particularly
vindictive toward another app.
You can also tell other apps
to activate with options.
So if you just call this with zero,
it will bring the key
and main windows front.
There's also an option there
to be able to bring all the
windows of the app to the front.
So there are some options there.
You can look at those up in the header.
So that's an NS running application.
Do I even have to present this slide?
Somebody already knows what's coming.
You may have seen this in mail.
Somebody sends you an email and they
send you an address and a website.
Mail takes care of figuring out
where the address is and it goes
through and it nicely URLifies
all the URLs and things like that.
If you've done this yourself,
it's a lot of work.
You go through and you have to
find everything that looks like
an address or looks like a URL.
It's really frustrating.
We're actually bringing this right
into the App Kit in Snow Leopard.
With a unified text checking API.
So in Leopard,
we were doing spelling and grammar.
Now we'll do dates, times, addresses,
and phone numbers.
We'll do URLs.
We'll find your smart quotes and any of
the smart dashes and things like that.
Interesting text features.
Text replacements.
So if you've typed in something that we
know that could be replaced by a nifty
or Unicode glyph or something like that,
we'll put that in and we'll
also enable auto correction.
So all of these things will be available
in the text system in Snow Leopard.
How are they available?
I hear you cry.
NS Text Checking Results are basically
the object that's going to wrap this up.
So an NS Text Checking Result
has two primary accessors.
That's going to be the read-only property
for the result type and the range.
And that's the range in the
string that you checked that
contains that result type.
These nine are text type spelling,
grammar, date, address, link.
Link is the URL one.
So once we autofind the URL,
that'll be the link type.
And it matches with the NS Attributed
String attribute for that.
Quotes, dashes, the replacement type,
and the correction type.
So whenever you get a
text checking result,
you'll be able to interrogate it
for what kind of thing it is and
where in the string that appeared.
If it's one of those other special types,
like a grammar type or a date,
we've put some conveniences on
NS Text Checking Results to be able
to just pull those things right out.
So if we saw a date,
you can call date on the
NS Text Checking Result.
You'll get a fully cooked NSDate.
But if you call URL, you'll get a URL.
The address components one is interesting
because addresses are fairly rich things,
right?
The address components
accessor returns a dictionary.
That dictionary contains all of
these things if we found them.
So the name, what the job title is,
the organization, street, city, state,
zip, country, and the phone number.
So you get full information
about all the addresses and
things like that that are in.
A text checking result.
One of the other really
interesting things that text
checking results come with,
and this is the tenth result type,
is this NS Orthography object.
And NS Orthography objects describe
what the script system and language
is that are in use in the text.
So when you ask us to check a string,
we're also going to go ahead and
figure out what that string looks
like in terms of what the script
system in use is and the language.
And the two primary accessors on that are
the dominant script and the language map.
And this is interesting because this is
what's going to allow us to be able to
do things like spell checking and stuff
like that against sections of the text
without having to switch your language.
NS Text Checking.
These aren't hooked up yet in the seed.
The API is there.
But just to give you an
idea of what will happen,
you'll be able to toggle all
of these automatic behaviors
right on NS Text Views.
So if you want these things to happen
automatically in any of the NS Text Views
that you've got in your code already,
you can call something like set
automatic data detection enabled.
And we'll go ahead and search
all the text that's in that
text view automatically.
And you can turn these things
on and off individually.
So there's one for dashes and quotes
and URLs if you want to just do
certain subsets of those things.
It's not turned on in the seed right now,
so you can't play with this directly.
But you can use this new
API and a spell checker.
And this is check string range types,
options in spell document with tag,
orthography word count.
The big hitters here are
the check string range.
So obviously the string that you
want to pass us and the range that
you want to search in that string.
The types are a bit mask of what
things you want to look for.
So tell us that you're looking
for URLs and addresses,
and we'll only look for those things.
The orthography is interesting.
If you pass us a by reference
pointer to an NS orthography object,
we'll take the entire range of that
and figure out what the dominant script
and language are and return that in
that top level NS orthography object.
will also return word
count if you want it.
The array that's returned here is an
array of those NS text checking results.
So each of those will have their
own orthography information in them.
So not only do you get an overall
sense of the dominant language,
but you'll be able to pick
out all the languages in each
individual text checking result.
In past years,
NS Browser has maybe lagged a little
bit behind the other collection viewers.
and we're addressing that
in Snow Leopard also.
There's a new item-based
set of delegate methods.
And if your object,
if your NS Browser data source delegate
object implements these four methods,
browser number of children of item,
browser child of item,
browser is leaf item,
and browser object value for item.
If you implement those four things,
you're going to get a very rich set
of APIs that are available to you on
NS Browser that allow you to change back
and forth very easily between what's
being shown in the browser and the
model objects that are underneath it.
So things like item and index
path now will work if those
methods are implemented.
Index path for item,
index path for column, current...
is a parent for item.
I need glasses.
Is leaf item and parent
for items in column.
All these methods work in conjunction
with your data source delegate
to be able to return those items.
And it's much easier to switch
back and forth with these.
Selection index path and
set selection index path,
these APIs allow you to be able to
set up exactly the path of things
that are selected all the way
down that NS Browser in one call.
So this is also pretty easy to use.
We're also offering header and
preview views in NS Browser now.
And this is the header
things up over each column.
And if you've seen what the finder
does when you click on a leaf item,
it shows that view in
the last column there.
This is how you'll be
able to do the same thing.
And all you have to do is return
us an NS View controller for a
particular leaf item for either
the preview view or that header
view that goes up in the top there.
So this will be a much easier way
to be able to use NS Browser to show
those kind of rich browsing experiences
when people click on their leaf items.
A couple of other
enhancements on NS Browser.
Scroll row to visible of columns.
So before you could bring a column in,
now you can actually select a specific
row and bring that in so that the
user can see it without having to make
any UI changes to figure out where
their selection is in the browser.
And the clicked column and clicked
row methods work in conjunction
with the NS Browser set menu API.
So if you have a contextual menu,
you'll be able to find out
exactly which column and row was
clicked on to determine that.
Doug Davidson will be giving a
talk about all of this stuff and is
polishing your Cocoa application talk.
That's tomorrow right here.
You don't have to stay
in your seats until then.
You can go and come back if you want.
And he'll talk about all of this and
a number of other things in his talk.
I'm not even going to
say anything right away.
NS Event and NS Responder
now do multi-touch gestures.
So everything that's available now for
the MacBook Air and the newer MacBooks,
the trackpad events.
This is magnify with event,
rotate with event.
Swipe with event,
begin gesture with event,
and end gesture with event.
And these are how you're going to be
able to hook up in the event system all
of those events into your application.
So if you're working with swipes,
typically, if you do a right swipe,
you go forward in your browser history.
This is how you do something like that.
So swipe with event.
You get the NS event in it.
You can check the delta X of the event.
If it's greater than zero,
it's a left swipe.
If it's less than zero,
it's a right swipe.
So this will be how you can wire
up your interface to be able to
take advantage of those things.
Thanks.
We have some new behavior in NS Drawing,
and this is kind of interesting.
NS Drawing lock focus used to
go to an off-screen window where
the image would be contained,
and now we've stopped doing that.
We're actually doing direct memory
buffers with NS Image lock focus.
So this is actually a good performance
win for us because it means that
we're not using the Windows Server to
hold the window references for this.
It does mean NS Cache
image rep is deprecated.
It's still there for compatibility,
but the lock focus code is
definitely going through a different
buffering mechanism for that.
If you see any behavior
changes on the seed,
please let us know.
And there's a bigger discussion of
this in the App Kit release notes.
So we'd really like to know if
something goes south with this.
We're also trying to make it easier to
work with NS Image and CG Image refs.
There are a lot of places where the
API takes a CG image ref or expects
a CG image ref and maybe you've
got the other thing in NSImage.
In it with CG image size,
this new API in Snow Leopard
that pulls in a CG image ref,
wraps it and makes it
an appropriate NSImage.
These next two methods work in
conjunction with each other.
CG image for proposed rec context
hints and best representation
for rec contents hints.
NSImage really tries to be a
resolution independent drawing image
representation and CG images are
a little bit more pixel oriented.
So this is how you'll be able to
generate a CG image as if it were
drawn in a particular rectangle.
So this is an easy way to get a
CG image out of an NSImage ref.
A CG image ref out of an NSImage.
There we go.
We now also have some more
support for NS Cursors,
new kinds of Cursors.
Drag Link Cursor, the Drag Copy Cursor,
Contextual Menu Cursors,
and the Operation Not Allowed Cursor.
That last one is the one where, you know,
if you drag out of the finder
into something else and the user's
not allowed to make that drag,
we'll put the little circle
with a slash through it.
We've also introduced something
you would have had to go to
Quick Draw for previously.
And Quick Draw would have required
you to get the current system cursor.
This actually gets you the
current system cursor right away.
It includes any,
no matter what app has set
the current system cursor,
and no matter what that cursor looks
like or whether or not it's hidden,
this will give you the image and
the hotspot for it right there.
And NSError.
NSError is a class that
actually lives in Foundation.
That class allows you to produce
user visible errors that are suitable
for presentation right to the user.
It contains a bunch of things.
Here's one that I got at some point
trying to open up that talk.rtf file.
I don't have the appropriate
access privileges.
It has the localized failure
reason and the recovery suggestion.
Now,
if you add the NSHelpAnchorError key,
we'll actually put the little
help anchor right there in the
presentation machinery for you.
So that's very handy.
NSDocument now supports the
concurrent loading of documents.
This is a class method on this document
that will be called repeatedly with each
type of document that's being opened.
Right?
So this is interesting
because if you return yes for
this from a particular type,
we'll go ahead and possibly
schedule the opening of that
document on a background thread.
And this is going to allow your
application to stay much more responsive
all the way through that process.
So if you select, say, 50 documents,
49 of those documents are
little 500K documents,
and the 50th one is some 600 megabyte
monstrosity that needs to load.
We're not going to block the main
thread loading that document.
We'll do it in the background.
The user can actually interact
with all the other documents in
the application and do their work.
And when that 600 meg document loads up,
it'll come into the front and then
you'll be able to work with that also.
So we're trying to make
sure that it's easy to write
document-based applications.
And we're trying to make sure that it's
easy to write document-based applications
that respond well and continue to respond
well even under heavy opening load.
: NS File Wrapper now also
has efficient saving support.
So a lot of times you'll
have an NS File Wrapper,
you make two or three changes to files
and there are 400 things in the wrapper.
If you call write to URL options
original contents URL error,
that original contents URL is
The pointer to where the
original document is.
What we'll do is we will compare
everything that changed and figure
out that all we have to do is create a
bunch of hard links to the new location
on file systems that support it.
And then we'll tear
down the old one there.
So it's a very efficient way to be able
to write file wrapper changes to disk.
Mark Picciarelli will talk
about this in his performance in
document-centric Cocoa applications.
And that's also here in
Russian Hill Thursday.
So
We also have concurrent drawing
support now in Snow Leopard.
So NSWindow has a top-level call,
allows current view drawing.
That allows current view drawing
tells the window that its contained
views may be able to have their
drawRect methods called in concurrency.
So they may be called on different
threads on the same time.
NSView has a canDrawConcurrently method
and a setCanDrawConcurrently method.
And these things opt the NSViews into
this draw and concurrent behavior.
So Aliozer will be talking about this.
Cocoa performance techniques
in the marina Thursday at 2.
And this is a very good way to
be able to get some extra drawing
performance if you know that you
can draw in background threads.
I have a quick little demo here.
If I could have demo one, please.
Gosh, I hope this looks okay.
Okay.
Let me get this so you can
actually see what's going on.
Pay no attention to this
man behind the curtain.
They always ask you,
"What are you going to do when the
demo goes wrong?" They never ask you,
machine doesn't display the way you
think it should?" If I launch this,
do you guys see that?
Let's
The code is bouncing.
If I create a new project, no.
All right, let's try this again.
[Transcript missing]
You guys throw the fruit,
I'm walking off stage.
Yay!
Thank you, sir.
Boy, it's a good thing there are people
who know computers around here.
Well, now what else can go wrong?
So I'm going to just fire up
a new Cocoa application here.
And I'll call this AppLister.
And here we have our blank Cocoa project.
Let me create a new class here.
I can't put instances
of NSWorkspace in nibs,
so I have to create a little
controller object here.
To create our AL controller,
I'll use our new Objective
C 2.0 property syntax here.
To create a property,
we'll make it a read-only property.
This will return an NS workspace.
[Transcript missing]
So all this does is when you call it,
we call shared workspace
and feed it back to you.
And let's add some stuff to a nib.
So here's our main menu and our window.
Let's start throwing some stuff in here.
We'll put a table view in.
Get this all nicely lined up.
I like to have the spacing correct,
so we'll make this so that
it's all nicely resizable.
And let's set up our object also.
So I'll get an NSObject instance here.
We'll throw it in.
And here in the object inspector,
I'm going to go ahead and set
its class to be ALController.
Now, what I want to try and do is hook
up to the NSWorkspace instance.
So I'll use an NSArrayController here.
to bring that in.
What we'll do is we'll use Cocoa bindings
and grab the content array.
We'll bind that to the controller here,
and the model key path will be
workspace running applications.
And what else do I need to do here?
Oh, let's make this look good.
Let's get an image, an NSImage cell,
and we'll assign that to this.
: Thank you, Chris.
I'm going to go ahead
and start the session.
I'm going to start the session with
a quick summary of what we've done.
The first thing we're going to
do is we're going to go to the
We build and go.
And what we have now is,
by binding to the NS running
applications instance,
our very own low budget activity monitor.
So if I launch TextEdit, it shows up.
And if I quit Interface Builder,
you see Interface Builder leave.
If I quit TextEdit,
the running applications
instance is key value observable,
as are the NS running
application instances as well.
So you'll be able to get some interesting
notifications out of all of that.
The other thing I wanted to show
you was the text checking APIs.
And it sounds like-- I mentioned
that a lot of this stuff was a lot
of work to be able to go through
and search through all of that text.
And what I have here is just
a little short demo of using
the text checking APIs.
And I threw this together in much
the same way in Interface Builder.
I just typed some text directly into the
Interface Builder text view right in IB.
So here's a bunch of text.
There's a URL.
Oh, it's that thing where people
send you mail your address.
And a possible replacement text and
just some grossly misspelled words.
And if I hit Check Text here.
This goes ahead and
recognizes all of that.
And we've also gone ahead
and I've assigned some tool
tips and things like that.
And here the tool tip over the little
C that's been underlined is actually,
it's hard to see up there,
it's actually the
little copyright symbol.
And I can add some stuff to this,
put a registered trademark thing there,
hit check text again,
and the tool tip has that.
How much code did this wind up being?
Oh, not much.
Here's where all the hard work really is.
This is my text check--
check text method.
Say that five times fast.
I grab the Layout Manager to be
able to do some attributed string,
setting temporary
attributes on the string.
I grab the string out of the text view,
clean up any attributes
that might have been there,
and then this is me doing-- well,
actually, I'm sorry.
It's the text system doing all
of the work for checking all
the possible types in that text.
So that one line of code gets everything.
And here I've just used the for in
statement to run over that array
and just assign some different
attributes depending on what the
different text checking things are.
So it's a really, really easy way to be
able to do all of this.
So if you don't want to do it
automatically in NSTextView,
it's pretty much one line of
code to find out what's in your
text there using our text system.
So-- Can I please have-- do
I have the other one back now?
I hope.
All right.
The slides are back.
Yay.
Core Data has also been busy.
There's more than I can
possibly talk about here,
but let me hit the highlights.
There's now Spotlight
integration in Core Data,
so you'll be able to do searchable
records from your Core Data database.
So there's a support directory
that will automatically get
maintained when you opt into this.
There's tool support to mark properties,
so when you have properties
inside your model,
you can check off those properties
to say index and spotlight,
and it'll just take care of that.
And it's got all the support for
generating the SQL for all of that stuff.
There are also read-only properties now,
which is a big performance
opportunity for you.
And the new fetch requests that
do read-only properties support
composites of function expressions,
individual properties, key paths,
the aggregate functions for sum, average,
max, min, count, things like that.
And there's also a way to be able to get
distinct results out of your databases.
So this is a property fetch that allows
you to go out and find out what's in
your database without having to get every
single object and then do the uniking,
right?
So if you were picking, oh,
let me do something.
And there's also support
for lightweight migration.
So automatic schema change
support for simple model changes.
If you tack on a new
property for something,
Cordato will go ahead and figure
So there's also in-place migrations for
SQL Lite data stores and tool support
for also renaming your attributes,
relationships, and entities.
So all of that stuff is
built right into Core Data.
The Core Data team will be
talking about that today at 2
p.m., What's New in Core Data.
There is a lot more than
I could possibly fit in here.
You know,
we could talk for a few days on all
of this stuff just by ourselves.
One of the things that we
are doing in the future,
if you heard Blaine's talk,
he touched on this.
In delegates and data sources,
things that we did before Snow Leopard
was define what the methods were by
using what we called informal protocols,
which was really just a fancy
way for saying categories
with a lot of documentation.
So this is the NS TableView data
source informal protocol.
It has some required methods.
It has some optional methods.
And if you've ever mistyped one
of those required methods and then
sat there for a while and gone,
why isn't my TableView working?
That's where this can come in handy.
So we're going to go through the
foundation and the app kit and
define those as formal protocols
using the @required keyword
and the @optional keyword.
And this will be a way that we'll
also annotate the delegate and data
source methods with those angle
brackets indicating protocol adoption
so that you'll be able to get some
compiler and tool support out of making
sure that you've got all of those
methods spelled correctly or actually
implemented that have to be required.
[Transcript missing]
Ken Ferry, tomorrow morning,
bright and early at 9:00 AM,
will talk about Cocoa tips and tricks
using Snow Leopard features effectively.
This was actually labeled
as Leopard features.
No, we're actually going to talk
about Snow Leopard features.
Custom bindings,
some interesting things you can
do with obviously 2.0 properties
and key value observing.
He'll also talk a lot about some of
the drawing stuff that you can do.
Leveraging Cocoa's layer-backed views,
tomorrow morning in the mission at 10:30.
Troy Stevens will talk about subpixel
LCD anti-aliasing in the App Kit.
Grouping and sequencing animations,
getting things to happen
in the right order.
Switching between layer-backed
and regular views.
There are times to do it and
times maybe not to do it,
and he'll talk about that.
Mapping view to layer geometry
can be a little tricky.
He'll have some tips for that
and also some performance ideas
in the Cocoa drawing system.
will be talking about
Cocoa performance techniques.
These are a bunch of things we
haven't talked about before at WWDC.
Multithreading atomicity
and synchronization in the
collections and your objects.
Computational complexity.
He will also talk in
detail about the NSCache,
NSPurgable data and
NSDiscardable content API.
So all the new caching and purging
techniques that we're adopting
in Cocoa in the AppKit and
Foundation and also some drawing stuff.
Doug Davidson, right here in
Russian Hill tomorrow at 3:30.
We'll talk about polishing
your Cocoa application.
Once you get it working,
there are a lot of things you
can do to really make it shine.
And 64-bit readiness.
You heard Bertrand's talk about asking
for plug-ins now to be 64 and 32-bit
capable as well as the applications.
So these are some things that
you'll be able to learn about there.
Performance and responsiveness, security,
localization and internationalization,
usability and accessibility
and scripting.
I think Doug and James will probably
be talking as fast as I was here.
And tomorrow also performance and
document-centric Cocoa applications.
Our very own Mark Picciarelli
will be talking about
concurrent document opening,
our NSURL usage everywhere in
the Foundation and the App Kit.
Fast document saving with the new
File Package API on File Wrapper.
And all the sudden termination stuff
and how adopting sudden termination
can really help your app as well
as the operating system as a whole.
If you're just dying to meet us,
we have two labs remaining.
The Carbon to 64-bit Cocoa Lab in
OS X Foundation's Lab B.
As far as I can tell,
that's a fancy name for that back
left corner when you walk in.
And we also have a
Cocoa Open Lab tomorrow at 2:00.
I'm sorry, tomorrow at 12:00.
That's in London.
And we have a
Cocoa Open Lab tomorrow at 2:00.
I'm sorry, tomorrow at 12:00.
Lab C, which is a fancy name for
the other back corner.
So please come and ask
us questions there.
For more information,
you can write to Mr.
Derek Horn,
who is our Application Frameworks
evangelist.
And also we're going to be updating
the AppKit and Foundation release
notes as we add new things.
So please keep an eye out on those.
And now we have time for some Q&A.